docs/examples/index.md, before:

# Example Projects

Ever wondered how a fully reproducible and automated project may look like? Get inspired here by accessing one of our example projects!

## 1. A Simple `Make` Pipeline with R and Latex

[In this example](https://github.com/rgreminger/example-make-workflow), you
find a simple `make` pipeline, which prepares (`data-preparation`) and analyzes (`analysis`)
data using R, and creates some tables for a paper (`paper`) using Latex.

This is probably the most simplistic but still complete workflow, and
thus highly recommended as a template to kickstart your projects.

Checkout [Rafael's GitHub repository](https://github.com/rgreminger/example-make-workflow) for all
the details! Fork it/use it as a template - contributions appreciated!

## 2. The TiSEM AirBnB repository

Using publicly available data from AirBnB (available via [Kaggle.com](https://www.kaggle.com/airbnb/boston)), we
illustrate how a reproducible workflow may look like in practice.

Check out our [GitHub repository for all the details on how to clone the project and run it](https://github.com/hannesdatta/tisem-airbnb).

We've crafted this project to run

- platform-independent (Mac, Linux, Windows)
- across a diverse set of software programs (Stata, Python, R)
- producing an entire (mock) paper, including modules that
    - download data from Kaggle,
    - prepare data for analysis,
    - run a simple analysis,
    - produce a paper with output tables and figures.

!!! warning
        This repository is still work-in-progress.

## 3. The webscraper repository

Check out our [GitHub repository with a few web scrapers](https://github.com/hannesdatta/scraping_workshop) that illustrate our thinking of how to code up data collections.

!!! warning
      The repository is still work-in-progress.

Commit message:

Update fork (#1)
* finalizing the data wrangling exercise

* add MATLAB / Julia

* fix typos

fix typo

* add latex

* fix typo

* take out presentation rendering from data wrangling template

* add tutorial for workflow

* add quotation to filename

* fix typo of install packages

* fix typo again

* add make book to site

* add comments R 4.0

* add CRAN mirror

* improve setup instructions for nltk

* add counter instructions; make bold video texts

* add rmarkdown as required package for tutorial; add remark about running make consecutively

* add rdata/csv to git ignore

* update to new TSH description

* carry out instead of manage

* another rewrite of the mission statement

* add notes about C: drive to tutorial

* alter mission of project management

* add objective of automatic execution

* add input/transformation/output to source code

* add audit files

* add note not to prefer jupyter notebooks

* create deck for course and TSH intro

* add links to other initatives

* work on agenda; add exercises

* revision of lecture

* build pdf handouts

* remove animation markdown

* final revision of slidedeck; ready to present at JADS

* implement policies; make ext. links open externally (some)

* remove example docs/tmp files

* update webdriver

* enhance lecture slides

* integration of pitch on site

* change contact to about

* leaner starting page; add about section

* Replace backslash with forward slash as a path separator

Forward slash can be used as part of path names on three major platforms. With the exception of platform-specific setup instructions, replace backslash with forward slash every time path name examples are given.

Co-authored-by: Hannes Datta <h.datta@tilburguniversity.edu>
Co-authored-by: Miklos Koren <miklos.koren@gmail.com>

docs/examples/index.md, after:

# Example Projects and Tutorials

Ever wondered how a fully reproducible and automated project may look like? Get inspired here by accessing one of our example projects, which you can directly use as a template to kick-start your own project!

## 1. Tutorial for a simple `Make` Pipeline

* features downloading (Twitter) JSON data from the web,
* parsing and conducting text analysis in Python, and
* running a simple analysis in R markdown

Longing to put your knowledge from our [workflow guide](../workflow) into practice? Then [follow this tutorial](../tutorial/index.md) to implement a fully automated and reproducible workflow to conduct sentiment analysis on tweets, using our [GitHub workflow template](https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow).

## 2. A Simple `Make` Pipeline with R and Latex

[In this example](https://github.com/rgreminger/example-make-workflow){target=_blank}, you
find a simple `make` pipeline, which prepares (`data-preparation`) and analyzes (`analysis`)
data using R, and creates some tables for a paper (`paper`) using Latex.

This is probably the most simplistic but still complete workflow, and
thus highly recommended as a template to kickstart your projects.

Checkout [Rafael's GitHub repository](https://github.com/rgreminger/example-make-workflow){target=_blank} for all
the details! Fork it/use it as a template - contributions appreciated!

## 3. The TiSEM AirBnB repository

Using publicly available data from AirBnB (available via [Kaggle.com](https://www.kaggle.com/airbnb/boston){target=_blank}), we
illustrate how a reproducible workflow may look like in practice.

Check out our [GitHub repository for all the details on how to clone the project and run it](https://github.com/hannesdatta/tisem-airbnb){target=_blank}.

We've crafted this project to run

- platform-independent (Mac, Linux, Windows)
- across a diverse set of software programs (Stata, Python, R)
- producing an entire (mock) paper, including modules that
    - download data from Kaggle,
    - prepare data for analysis,
    - run a simple analysis,
    - produce a paper with output tables and figures.

!!! warning
        This repository is still work-in-progress.

## 4. The webscraper repository

Check out our [GitHub repository with a few web scrapers](https://github.com/hannesdatta/scraping_workshop){target=_blank} that illustrate our thinking of how to code up data collections.

!!! warning
      The repository is still work-in-progress.
