docs/index.md, before:

# Reproducible Science and Programming Practices for Researchers

These website should help you to get started in

- setting up the computing environment on your machine, and
- understanding the basic principles of reproducible science, 

both of which will allow you to manage *data- and computation-intensive projects* way more effeciently than before!

!!! tip 
    * Rather then seeing this page as a one-time exercise, we encourage you to bookmark it and come back to it frequently.
	* Reproducible science is a process - you can start today (e.g., by setting up file structures in a better way), but it will take time to master the more advanced skills.
	* If you find any outdated content, links or unclear descriptions, email us at [h.datta@tilburguniversity.edu]() so that we can update the instructions or clarify as needed.

<!-- !!! tip "Installation Help" -->
<!--     Please try and install all the software before the course begins. -->
<!--     If you are struggling we are able to help - but we expect you have tried to work through the guide yourself. -->
<!--     Details of the Installation help session are found below: -->

<!--     * When: Friday, August 25th, 9.30am - 12.30am -->
<!--     * Where: SOF-E-09 -->

Commit message:

add links to main site; change in wording

docs/index.md, after:

# Reproducible Science and Programming Practices for Researchers

These website should help you to get started in

- setting up the computing environment on your machine (--> [software setup](setup/)), and
- understanding the main principles of reproducible science, and how they can be applied in a set of standardized workflows (--> [project setup and workflow management](workflow/) ),

both of which will allow you to manage *data- and computation-intensive projects* in an efficient way.

!!! tip
    * Rather then seeing this page as a one-time exercise, we encourage you to bookmark it and come back to it frequently.
	* Reproducible science is a process - you can start today (e.g., by setting up file structures in a better way), but it will take time to master the more advanced skills.
	* If you find any outdated content, links or unclear descriptions, email us at [h.datta@tilburguniversity.edu]() so that we can update the instructions or clarify as needed.

<!-- !!! tip "Installation Help" -->
<!--     Please try and install all the software before the course begins. -->
<!--     If you are struggling we are able to help - but we expect you have tried to work through the guide yourself. -->
<!--     Details of the Installation help session are found below: -->

<!--     * When: Friday, August 25th, 9.30am - 12.30am -->
<!--     * Where: SOF-E-09 -->
