docs/tutorial/clone.md, before:

# Let's download the template

The workflow template is hosted on [at https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow](https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow). We first need to *download* (or, as Git users would say, fork and clone) the template. The template then is accessible on our local computer, and we can start modifying it.

Watch our video to learn about the two ways of downloading a template. After that, work through the set of practice questions.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0rxHQQUNR1o" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

!!! questions "Practice questions and answers"

    1) Open Anaconda Prompt (on Windows) or the terminal (on Mac, Linux) at the directory where you stored your local copy of our repository.

    2) Show the contents of the main directory (using `dir` on Windows, or `ls` on Mac/Linux)

    3) Navigate the directory structure up and down (using `cd <DIRNAME>` to enter a directory, and `cd ..` to leave a directory).

    4) Which directories featured [here](../workflow/directories.md) are present in your local copy, and which ones are not? Why do you think that is?

    **Watch our solutions here.**

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ybJOCS9pDYA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

add notes about C: drive to tutorial

docs/tutorial/clone.md, after:

# Let's download the template

The workflow template is hosted on [at https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow](https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow). We first need to *download* (or, as Git users would say, fork and clone) the template. The template then is accessible on our local computer, and we can start modifying it.

Watch our video to learn about the two ways of downloading a template. After that, work through the set of practice questions.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0rxHQQUNR1o" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

!!! warning "Clone/download the files where you have writing rights"
    - In the video, we're saving the template to `C:\projects`.
    - However, if you don't have sufficient "writing" rights to folders on the `C:\` drive, this may not work for you.
    - Therefore, we recommend you to clone/download the template to a folder where you *usually store your documents* (e.g., your documents folder).

!!! questions "Practice questions and answers"

    1) Open Anaconda Prompt (on Windows) or the terminal (on Mac, Linux) at the directory where you stored your local copy of our repository.

    2) Show the contents of the main directory (using `dir` on Windows, or `ls` on Mac/Linux)

    3) Navigate the directory structure up and down (using `cd <DIRNAME>` to enter a directory, and `cd ..` to leave a directory).

    4) Which directories featured [here](../workflow/directories.md) are present in your local copy, and which ones are not? Why do you think that is?

    **Watch our solutions here.**

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ybJOCS9pDYA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
