docs/tutorial/finish.md, before:

# You did it!

**Congrats!!!** You've finished our tutorial, and are now officially
hooked to `make`.

![Congrats](https://media.giphy.com/media/D0EjguuQzYr9m/giphy.gif)

Well, all fun aside, we hope you found this a useful tutorial.

Of course, this is just one way in which to increase your research
productivity. Here on tilburgsciencehub.com, we have more stuff available, so take
your time to browse the page.

Oh, and to be complete, here's a summary of what you've learnt.

**Thanks for following through! Good job!**

!!! summary "Summary of this tutorial"
    Can you believe you all did this? See below for the (long list)

    - You've cloned our GitHub template for a reproducible textmining
    workflow ([https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow](https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow))
    - You've verified your software setup (and probably spent a lot of
      time fixing it!)
    - You've downloaded our template and ran your first workflow,
    simply by typing `make` (or previewing it with `make -n`)
    - Now the serious business started: you modified our scripts. Among others, you
        - removed the prototyping condition and parsed the entire data set
        - parsed more attributes (`.get('user').get('screen_name')`), and added more text mining
        metrics (e.g., word count - for a great overview about
          using text mining for research, see [here](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0022242919873106)[^1])
        - you even changed the URL of the actual data set to use and
        reproduced your analysis on that different dataset
        - modified R scripts and an RMarkdown document.

    Want more? Revise our [workflow procedures](../workflow/), or check out
    other [example projects and templates](../examples).

[^1]:
    Berger, J., Humphreys, A., Ludwig, S., Moe, W. W., Netzer, O., & Schweidel, D. A. (2020). Uniting the Tribes: Using Text for Marketing Insight. *Journal of Marketing*, 84(1), 1–25. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022242919873106

Commit message:

add make book to site

docs/tutorial/finish.md, after:

# You did it!

**Congrats!!!** You've finished our tutorial, and are now officially
hooked to `make`.

![Congrats](https://media.giphy.com/media/D0EjguuQzYr9m/giphy.gif)

Well, all fun aside, we hope you found this tutorial useful.

Of course, this is just one way in which to increase your research productivity. Here on tilburgsciencehub.com, we have more stuff available, so take your time to browse the page.

Oh, and to be complete, here's a summary of what you've learnt.

**Thanks for following through! Good job!**

!!! summary "Summary of this tutorial"
    Can you believe you all did this? See below for the (long list)

    - You've cloned our GitHub template for a reproducible textmining
    workflow ([https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow](https://github.com/hannesdatta/textmining-workflow))
    - You've verified your software setup (and probably spent a lot of
      time fixing it!)
    - You've downloaded our template and ran your first workflow,
    simply by typing `make` (or previewing it with `make -n`)
    - Now the serious business started: you modified our scripts. Among others, you
        - removed the prototyping condition and parsed the entire data set
        - parsed more attributes (`.get('user').get('screen_name')`), and added more text mining
        metrics (e.g., word count - for a great overview about
          using text mining for research, see [here](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0022242919873106)[^1])
        - you even changed the URL of the actual data set to use and
        reproduced your analysis on that different dataset
        - modified R scripts and an RMarkdown document.

    Curious for more?

      - Revise our [workflow procedures](../workflow/)
      - Check out more [example projects and templates](../examples)
      - Getting deeper into `make`? Then use [this fantastic (open-source) book](https://www.oreilly.com/openbook/make3/book/index.csp)[^2].

[^1]:
    Berger, J., Humphreys, A., Ludwig, S., Moe, W. W., Netzer, O., & Schweidel, D. A. (2020). Uniting the Tribes: Using Text for Marketing Insight. *Journal of Marketing*, 84(1), 1–25. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022242919873106
[^2]:
    Mecklenburg, R. (2004). *Managing Projects with GNU Make: The Power of GNU Make for Building Anything.* O'Reilly Media, Inc. https://www.oreilly.com/openbook/make3/book/index.csp
